Conditions and loops: Update when section (#4480)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/control-flow.md

If you're using `if` as an expression, for example, for returning its value or
assigning it to a variable, the `else` branch is mandatory.

## When expressions and statements

`when` is a conditional expression that executes code based on multiple possible values or conditions. It is

> similar to the `switch` statement in C-like languages. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
closely related to the `switch` statement in Java, C, and similar languages. For example:
````

I feel like these days "C-like languages" is not as well understood as it was a few years ago.

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val x = 2
    when (x) {
        1 -> print("x == 1")
        2 -> print("x == 2")

>         else -> {
>             print("x is neither 1 nor 2")
>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        else -> println("x is neither 1 nor 2")
```

Just to keep the same style across all branches (unless you want to show something different)

    }
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3" id="kotlin-conditions-when-statement"}

`when` matches its argument against all branches sequentially until some branch condition is satisfied.

You can use `when` in a few different ways. Firstly, you can use `when` either as an **expression** or as a **statement**.
As an expression, `when` returns a value that you can use later in your code. As a statement, `when` completes an action

> without returning anything:

Reviewer: _Mega-nitpick_: Maybe it is more about the developer not caring about the return value of that action? As of now, every Kotlin function returns something, but sometimes is the un-interesting `Unit` value.

Author: I updated the text to say "return anything of further use". WDYT?

Reviewer: I like it, it's more exact without going into the nitty gritty details of statement vs. expression.

<table>
   <tr>
       <td>Expression</td>
       <td>Statement</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
<td>

```kotlin
// Returns a string

> when (x) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val text = when(x) {
```

Maybe this emphasizes the "returned value"?

If you're using `if` as an expression, for example, for returning its value or
assigning it to a variable, the `else` branch is mandatory.

## When expressions and statements

> `when` is a conditional expression that executes code based on multiple possible values or conditions. It is

Reviewer 2: Do you think it's feasible to change "executes" for "runs"? Or any other word to avoid "execute" as much as possible, as mentioned in JB style guide and other TW style and best practices guidelines.

similar to the `switch` statement in Java, C, and similar languages. For example:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val x = 2
    when (x) {
        1 -> print("x == 1")
        2 -> print("x == 2")

>         else -> print("x is neither 1 nor 2")

Reviewer 2: Let's add a code line reflecting the output, also as per our SG

Author: Added for other samples too.

    }
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3" id="kotlin-conditions-when-statement"}

`when` matches its argument against all branches sequentially until some branch condition is satisfied.

You can use `when` in a few different ways. Firstly, you can use `when` either as an **expression** or as a **statement**.

> As an expression, `when` returns a value that you can use later in your code. As a statement, `when` completes an action

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an expression, `when` returns a value for later use in your code. As a statement, `when` completes an action
```

Reviewer 2: To avoid repeating "you can" many times in a single paragraph.

without returning anything of further use:

<table>
   <tr>
       <td>Expression</td>
       <td>Statement</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
<td>

```kotlin
// Returns a string assigned to the 
// text variable
val text = when (x) {
    1 -> "x == 1"
    2 -> "x == 2"
    else -> "x is neither 1 nor 2"
}
```

</td>
<td>

```kotlin
// Returns nothing but triggers a 
// print statement
when (x) {
    1 -> print("x == 1")
    2 -> print("x == 2")
    else -> print("x is neither 1 nor 2")
}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> Secondly, you can use `when` with or without a subject.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Secondly, you can use `when` with or without a subject:
```

> Secondly, you can use `when` with or without a subject.

Author: There's the note below which explains that we recommend using a subject to make it easier to read and maintain your code. Even further below, we explain that a subject with an expression has the advantage that you don't have to use an `else` branch. Basically, using a subject with expressions makes the compiler's life easier because it just has to check the subject. I didn't add this detail because explaining _why_ it's easier leads to describing the inner mechanics of the compiler 😅

> Secondly, you can use `when` with or without a subject.

Reviewer 2: I see. So the behavior is the same, and the same goal can be achieved with and without subject, but adding a subject is a choice that makes the life of the compiler easier, right? 
I think the gap we can bridge is clarifying that having or not having a subject doesn't change/affect the output of the code and then reinforcing what is the best practice and why. What do you think? Otherwise, even that we have the note about the recommendation, when looking at the 2 options in the table, there's an open question about: which one should I use according to what my code must achieve (beyond the recommended practice) ?

<table>
   <tr>
       <td>With subject <code>x</code></td>
       <td>Without subject</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
<td>

```kotlin
when(x) { ... }
```

</td>
<td>

```kotlin
when { ... }
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> Where possible, we recommend using `when` with a subject. Using `when` with a subject makes your code easier to read
> and maintain by clearly showing what is being checked.
> 
{style="note"}

Depending on how you use `when`, there are different requirements for whether you need to cover all possible cases in your
branches.

If you use `when` as a statement, you don't have to cover all possible cases:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val x = 2
    when (x) {
        // Not all cases are covered
        1 -> print("x == 1")
        2 -> print("x == 2")
    }
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3" id="kotlin-when-statement"}

> In a `when` statement, the values of individual branches are ignored. Just like with `if`, each branch can be a block, 

Reviewer 2: Can we add information about what happens when not all the cases are covered and the value doesn't match any of the branches? It is not an error, but is there something returned? 

For example:

fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val x = 3
    when (x) {
        // Not all cases are covered
        1 -> print("x == 1")
        2 -> print("x == 2")
    }
    //sampleEnd
}

Author: I updated the text to try and explain this better. What do you think? :)

and its value is the value of the last expression in the block.

If you use `when` as an expression, you have to cover all possible cases. The value of the first matching branch becomes
the value of the overall expression. If you don't cover all cases, the compiler throws an error.

If your `when` expression has a subject, you can use an `else` branch to make sure that all possible cases are covered, but
it isn't mandatory. For example, if your subject is a `Boolean`, [`enum` class](enum-classes.md), [`sealed` class](sealed-classes.md),
or one of their nullable counterparts, you can cover all cases without an `else` branch:

```kotlin
enum class Bit {
    ZERO, ONE
}

val numericValue = when (getRandomBit()) {
  // No else branch is needed because all cases are covered
    Bit.ZERO -> 0
    Bit.ONE -> 1
}
```

If your `when` expression **doesn't** have a subject, you **must** have an `else` branch or the compiler throws an error.
The `else` branch is evaluated when none of the other branch conditions are satisfied:

```kotlin
when {
    a > b -> "a is greater than b"
    a < b -> "a is less than b"
    else -> "a is equal to b"
}
```

> `when` expressions and statements can be used in a number of different ways to simplify your code, handle multiple conditions,

Reviewer 2: `when` expressions and statements offer different ways to... 
OR
`when` expressions and statements work in different ways to...
To avoid passive voice

}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Secondly, you can use `when` with or without a subject.

<table>
   <tr>
       <td>With subject <code>x</code></td>
       <td>Without subject</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
<td>

```kotlin
when(x) { ... }
```

</td>
<td>

```kotlin
when { ... }
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> Where possible, we recommend using `when` with a subject. Using `when` with a subject makes your code easier to read
> and maintain by clearly showing what is being checked.
> 
{style="note"}

Depending on how you use `when`, there are different requirements for whether you need to cover all possible cases in your
branches.

If you use `when` as a statement, you don't have to cover all possible cases:

```kotlin
fun main() {
    //sampleStart
    val x = 2
    when (x) {
        // Not all cases are covered
        1 -> print("x == 1")
        2 -> print("x == 2")
    }
    //sampleEnd
}
```
{kotlin-runnable="true" kotlin-min-compiler-version="1.3" id="kotlin-when-statement"}

In a `when` statement, the values of individual branches are ignored. Just like with `if`, each branch can be a block, 
and its value is the value of the last expression in the block.

> If you use `when` as an expression, you have to cover all possible cases. The value of the first matching branch becomes

Reviewer: _General comment_: maybe you want to point people to the new 2.1 feature "guards".

Author: I'll make sure to do that once Ale's content is ready

}
```

> You can also check whether a value is `in` or `!in` a [range](ranges.md) or a collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check whether a value is `in` (contained in) or `!in` (not contained in) a [range](ranges.md) or a collection:
```

}
```

> Additionally, you can check that a value `is` or `!is` a particular type. Note that,

Reviewer 2: How about making it consistent with the previous leading line that was super clear:

Additionally, you can check that a value is or isn't of a particular type via the `is` or `!is` keywords:
